[MUSIC]
So, we've been talking about networking.
And we've been talking about the different
components that you find inside networks.
So I thought that since I had some of
these components lying around the lab,
I'd show you some of these and
let you get a look at what they
actually look like in the flesh.
So first is the hub.
This is an ethernet hub.
These are hard to find.
They don't make many of these anymore,
but this is a hub.
This is a four port hub.
It's got four ethernet jacks.
You can plug four things in.
And it's very simple what a hub does.
It receives a packet on one port and
it just copies that out
to the other three ports.
So it's just a repeater in that sense.
It's very dumb.
And it's wasteful in terms of bandwidth,
right.
Because if you're sending a message to,
sending a message from one,
from this port to this port.
It doesn't need to appear on these
two ports, but it does anyway.
So, there's extra traffic with a hub.
A hub is very dumb and
wasteful in terms of bandwidth.
That's why you don't see
them too much anymore.
So that's the hub.
Next up is a switch.
This is a switch,
it's a bigger switch than that hub.
This switch has sixteen ports,
instead of four that you saw in that hub,
but you know the number
of ports is variable.
But this is smarter so what it does is it
receives packets on, let's say it receives
a packet on this port, it doesn't just
send it out blindly to every other port.
Instead it learns over time which ports
are connected to which IP addresses.
So it can look at the packet header, and
determine which port it expects
to see the destination on, and
only send that message on that port, so
if it receives something on this port,
and looks to the header and says,
oh, that device is on port ten,
then it'll only send it out on this
port and that saves bandwidth.
So that's a switch.
This is a router.
This is actually a wireless router,
wi-fi router.
And it's got some lights on the front.
You've seen these,
you probably have one at home, or
you've seen them on the wall in your
office building or something like that.
This is a router.
On the back, it's got an antennae,
since it's a wireless router.
On the back, again,
it's got ethernet ports.
[LAUGH] It's the same as the switch and
the hub.
One thing to notice about these three
devices is that they are very similar.
I mean their interfaces are similar.
They're just a bunch of Ethernet jacks and
some lights.
Ethernet jacks and some lights.
This one, Ethernet jacks and some lights.
Now, this also has a wireless antennae
because it's a wireless device, but,
generally these look basically the same
and they only differ in how they function
and how they respond to the messages and
where they reflect messages to.
[MUSIC]